README.md, before:

My personal notes regarding the codebase can be found in the `notes/` folder. <br />
I intend to extend the Go blueprint to learn more about the standard http library.

# Extensions

- [x] Log a message when the server is started
- [ ] Create a SQL file that can add data to database and source it
- [ ] Create an API point that returns all data from a table
- [ ] Create an API point that can be used to query for a single record in the database
- [ ] Create an API point to `INSERT`s data in the database

# Project go-blueprint

One Paragraph of project description goes here

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

## MakeFile

run all make commands with clean tests

```bash
make all build
```

build the application

```bash
make build
```

run the application

```bash
make run
```

Create DB container

```bash
make docker-run
```

Shutdown DB container

```bash
make docker-down
```

live reload the application

```bash
make watch
```

run the test suite

```bash
make test
```

clean up binary from the last build

```bash
make clean
```

Commit message:

feat: add SQL file to create tables

README.md, after:

My personal notes regarding the codebase can be found in the `notes/` folder. <br />
I intend to extend the Go blueprint to learn more about the standard http library.

# Extensions

- [x] Log a message when the server is started
- [x] Create a SQL file that can add data to database and source it
- [ ] Create an API point that returns all data from a table
- [ ] Create an API point that can be used to query for a single record in the database
- [ ] Create an API point to `INSERT`s data in the database

## Connect Database with `psql`

Since `psql` hostname defaults to local socket we need to explicitly pass in the hostname as 'localhost'.
Passing the username as `melkey` will give root access. The password is in the `.env`

These details are specified in `.env` and passed to `docker-compose.yml`

```bash
psql -h localhost blueprint melkey
```

## Execute `create-tables.sql` with `psql`

`\i` is an internal `psql`command that can be used to execute SQL in files that are in the same filesystem as the client.

> Aside: This is in contrast to SQL's [`COPY` command](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/sql-copy.html)

```
\i create-tables.sql
```

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

## MakeFile

run all make commands with clean tests

```bash
make all build
```

build the application

```bash
make build
```

run the application

```bash
make run
```

Create DB container

```bash
make docker-run
```

Shutdown DB container

```bash
make docker-down
```

live reload the application

```bash
make watch
```

run the test suite

```bash
make test
```

clean up binary from the last build

```bash
make clean
```
